# MASTODON Newsletter (Fall 2018)

## MASTODON R&D 100 Finalist

MASTODON is an R&D 100 finalist for 2018. The final winners will be announced on November 16th.

## Beam Elements in MASTODON

Geometrically nonlinear beam and lumped mass/inertia elements have been recently added to MASTODON. These elements can now be used to approximate structures using stick-mass models. As a test scenario, stick-mass model of a nuclear power plant from the SASSI manual ([image001]) was modeled using MASTODON and LS-Dyna. The first 15 natural frequencies of the MASTODON model agree well with the SASSI and the corresponding LS-Dyna models, and the spectral acceleration at a location on the structure matches well with the LS-Dyna results as shown in [image002].

!row!
!col! class=s12 m6 l6
!media media/image001.png style=margin-left:auto;margin-right:auto;width:60%; id=image001
	caption=Illustration of a representative nuclear power plant structure and the corresponding stick mass models from SASSI manual.
!col-end!

!col! class=s12 m6 l6
!media media/image002.png style=margin-left:auto;margin-right:auto;width:90%; id=image002
	caption=Comparison between spectral acceleration at a location on this structure obtained using MASTODON and LS-Dyna for ground motion applied at the base of the stick-mass models.
!col-end!
!row-end!

## Structural Dynamics Lab

The Facility Risk Group is setting up the Structural Dynamics Laboratory (SDL) at INL to collect data by conducting a series of experiments. The first set of experiments focus on the interface behavior of soil and structures. For this purpose, a reaction frame has been designed to house a soil box and two high capacity actuators. The data is collected by state-of-the-art equipment including slip sensors, string potentiometers, load cells and high-resolution cameras. The collected data, along with the existing literature, will be the basis for the soil-structure interface models that will be integrated to MASTODON.

!media media/image003.jpg style=margin-left:auto;width:30%;margin-right:auto; id=image003
	caption=Photograph of the soil box and the reaction frame in the structural dynamics laboratory.

## Facility Risk Group Presents at the NPH Workshop

The DOE Natural Phenomena Hazards (NPH) meeting was held on 23rd and 24th October and was attended by various professionals working on the safety of nuclear structures from seismic and other natural hazards. There were four talks from the Facility Risk Group:

- "Idaho National Laboratory Nuclear Safety Research Program", *Justin Coleman*
- "Towards a Risk-Based, Cost-Optimized Design of Safety-Related Nuclear Structures and Facilities", *Chandu Bolisetti*
- "Impact of Topographic Effects on Site Response at Nuclear Facility Sites", *Swetha Veeraraghavan*
- "Preliminary Investigation of Effects of Sliding and Gapping Phenomena in Soil-Structure Interaction Modeling", *Efe Kurt*


!media media/image004.png style=margin-left:auto;width:30%;margin-right:auto; id=image004
       caption=Illustration of risk-informed and risk-based design methodologies.
