# Example 5: Dynamic Analysis of a Simplified Model of a Nuclear Power Plant Structure

## Model Description

This example demonstrates a dynamic analysis of a simplified stick model of a nuclear power plant taken from [citet:sassiuser2006]
in MASTODON. The actual structure consists of a containment made up of prestressed concrete and a reinforced concrete internal structure. The simplified numerical model consists of two sets of stick models (one for the containment and the other for the internal structure) (see [fig:stickmodel]). The lumped masses and the section properties of the stick model are presented in the right part of the ([fig:stickmodel]). The superstructure is connected to the rigid foundation by four rigid foundation beams as shown in [fig:stickwithfoundation]. An acceleration time history is applied at the base of the foundation in the X, Y and Z direction and the response spectra at different elevations are compared with the response obtained from LS-DYNA model taken from [citet:fragilityanalysis].

!media media/examples/stickmodel.png
       style=width:100%;margin-right:0px;float:center;
       id=fig:stickmodel
       caption=Illustration of the representative nuclear power plant structures and the corresponding stick models(left) and section properties and lumped masses of stick model (right) [citet:sassiuser2006].

!media media/examples/stickwithfoundation.png
       style=width:50%;margin-left:150px;float:center;
       id=fig:stickwithfoundation
       caption=Illustration of the connection between the stick model and foundation [citet:sassiuser2006].             

!alert note
- The horizontal separation between the stick-mass model in the above figures is only for illustration. Both the stick-mass models are located along the center line and the base node is shared by both the stick mass models.
- The lumped mass value of mass no. 3 is 4600 kips and not 46000, and mass no. 2, which is omitted in the table is equal to 4200 kips.

## Modeling in MASTODON

!listing examples/ex05/StickModel_accel_base.i

The mesh is generated by importing an existing mesh file. The details about the type of mesh file supported can be found at [Getting Started](manuals/user/index.md). The stick-models and the foundation beams are represented as 1D line elements and the foundation is represented by the 3D elements as shown in [fig:ex05input]. The displacements and rotations in X, Y and Z directions are defined in the variables section and the velocity, acceleration, rotational velocity and rotational acceleration are defined as the auxiliary variables.

!media media/examples/ex05input.png
       style=width:50%;margin-left:150px;float:center;
       id=fig:ex05input
       caption=Input model in MASTODON.

 The simulation of the 1D model is carried out using [LineElementMaster](syntax/Modules/TensorMechanics/index.md) action. [DynamicTensorMechanics](syntax/index.md) and [InertialForce](syntax/index.md) kernels are used to represent the dynamic behavior of the 3D elements. The [Newmark's time integration](manuals/theory/index.md) parameter used for the problem are those associated with the Newmark's average acceleration method i.e. beta = 0.25 and gamma =0.5. A constant [Rayleigh damping](manuals/theory/index.md) of 5% is implemented using the values of zeta = 0.0005438894818 and eta = 3.26645357034. The sectional properties and the lumped masses (as described in [fig:stickmodel]) are assigned to the different parts of the model.

The properties of each beam element are calculated by using the material definition. [ComputeElasticityBeam](syntax/index.md) is used to calculate the elasticity tensor for the beam element. The Young's Modulus, Poison's ratio and the shear coefficient are used as an input to calculate the elasticity tensor for the beam elements. The forces and moments in the beam is calculated by using [ComputeBeamResultant](syntax/index.md).

The model is restrained from rotation at all the three directions at the connection between the 1D foundation beams and the solid foundation and the acceleration time history as shown in [fig:ex05inputmotion] is applied at the base of the foundation using BCs block. The ground motion accelerations  are extracted from the .csv files and the scale factor of 32.2000008 is used to convert the units of acceleration from 'g' to 'ft/${s}^2$'.

!media media/examples/ex05inputmotion.png
       style=width:60%;margin-left:150px;float:center;
       id=fig:ex05inputmotion
       caption=Input acceleration time history in (a) X-direction (b) Y-direction (c) Z-direction

The executioner and the post-processor blocks are provided to solve the nonlinear system and extract the required data.

## Comparison of Results

The response spectra at the two different elevations (22 ft and 61 ft) in the internal structure is compared with the response spectra obtained from LS-DYNA (taken from [citet:fragilityanalysis]). The graph of frequency vs response acceleration is plotted with frequency in the logarithmic scale in X-axis and acceleration in Y-axis. The response spectra obtained from MASTODON are in close agreement with the response spectra obtained from LS-DYNA in X- and Y- direction and the difference in results in the Z-direction is due to the difference in approach adopted in modeling damping in  Z- direction in the two modeling softwares.                                                        

!media media/examples/14responsespectra.png
       style=width:80%;margin-center:200px;float:center;
       id=fig:14responsespectra
       caption=Comparison of the Response Spectra at at an elevation of 22 ft at internal structure in a) X-direction b) Y-direction c) Z-direction.

!media media/examples/17responsespectra.png
       style=width:80%;margin-center:200px;float:center;
       id=fig:17responsespectra
       caption=Comparison of the Response Spectra at an elevation of 61 ft at internal structure in a) X-direction b) Y-direction c) Z-direction.       

!bibtex bibliography
