# Example 1a: Direct shear test using the Darandeli backbone curve formulation

This example demonstrates a single element direct simple shear test that utilizes I-soil with auto
generated backbone curve using [!citet](darendeli2001development) modulus reduction curves. The
relevant files for the example are:

!listing examples/ex01a/HYS_darendeli.i

In above input file, all the input blocks except material definition are explained at
[Getting Started](manuals/user/index.md) section of User's Manual.

For this particular example, the units defining the parameters are kN, ton, and meter (m), and the
material definition is created using following input:

!listing examples/ex01a/HYS_darendeli.i
         start=Materials
         end=Preconditioning

where;

- `soil type = 'darendeli'` specifies that the backbone will be auto-generated by MASTODON using
  [!citet](darendeli2001development) correlations.

- `over_consolidation_ratio = '1'` specifies that the over consolidation ratio for the soil material
  is 1 and it is normally consolidated. (see [!citet](tpmsoilmechanics) for further information)

- `plasticity_index = '0'` specifies that the plasticity index of the soil is 0. The plasticity index
  is the difference between liquid limit and plastic limit (PI = LL - PL). PI = 0 means the soil is
  nonplastic, i.e., there is very little or no fines.

- `initial_shear_modulus = '20000'` specifies the small strain shear modulus (elastic property) of
  the soil.

- `number_of_points = '10'` specifies that there will be total number of 10 nested components that
  are superposed to obtain backbone curve.

- `poissons_ratio = '0.3'` specifies the Poisson's ratio (elastic property) for the soil.

- `block = 0` specifies that the material block will be assigned to element with block id = 0;

- `initial_stress = '-4.204286 0 0  0 -4.204286 0  0 0 -9.810'` see
  [Getting Started](manuals/user/index.md).

- `density = '2'` specifies the density of the soil material.

- `p_ref = '6.07286'` is the reference pressure at which the backbone curve is defined.

The material used in this example is pressure independent thus no further input is required. The BCs
block given below shows that a shear displacement is applied at the upper surface in x direction and
the bottom surface of the element is fixed. This leads to a 0.02 cyclic shear strain amplitude.

!listing examples/ex01a/HYS_darendeli.i
         start=BCs
         end=Functions

where Displacement2.csv is the .csv file containing the displacement time history.

This analysis will produce the hysteretic response plotted in [fig:example1stressstrain]

!media media/examples/example1stressstrain.png
       style=width:60%;margin-left:150px;float:center;
       id=fig:example1stressstrain
       caption=Hysteretic response under 0.02 cyclic strian amplitude.

!bibtex bibliography
